ADMIN DASHBOARD WITH CSS GRID LAYOUT AND THEME SWITCHING  
FEATURES TEST CASES & VALIDATIONS  
1. FIELD: Sidebar Navigation  
Requirement: Clickable links to various dashboard sections, such as Home, Users, and Settings.  

The current active section should be highlighted.  

It must remain fixed during scrolling, with its position set to fixed.  

It must be accessible via keyboard using the Tab and Enter keys.  

VALID BEHAVIOR:  

Clicking on "Users" directs you to the Users section.  

The active tab changes its background color with the active CSS class applied.  

INVALID BEHAVIOR:  

There is no visual feedback upon clicking.  

Navigation buttons are not accessible by keyboard.  

Clicking links does not perform any action; there is no scroll or section activation.  

2. FIELD: Theme Switcher (Light / Dark Mode Toggle)  
Requirement: Switch between light and dark themes using a button or switch.  

The theme choice must persist, either in localStorage or session memory.  

It must dynamically update CSS variables or classes.  

VALID INPUTS:  

Clicking “Switch to Dark Mode” activates the dark theme, which has a dark background and light text.  

The theme remains after a page reload.  

INVALID INPUTS:  

The theme switch resets upon reloading.  

The switch button doesn’t change the theme.  

3. FIELD: Dashboard Grid Layout  
Requirement: The layout must use CSS Grid to arrange panels, such as analytics, charts, and recent activity.  

It must be responsive and adjust to different screen sizes.  

There should be at least a 2-column layout on desktops and a 1-column layout on mobile devices.  

VALID BEHAVIOR:  

On desktops, a 2 or 3-column layout is displayed.  

On mobile, cards stack vertically.  

INVALID BEHAVIOR:  

The layout fails to adjust when resizing.  

It uses Flexbox instead of CSS Grid, which does not meet the experiment objective.  

4. FIELD: Widget Panels (Analytics, User Info, etc.)  
Requirement: Each panel must be visually different, with padding, shadow, and border-radius.  

Content within panels should not overflow.  

Icons or indicators must align correctly.  

VALID EXAMPLES:  

A widget showing the total user count with a rounded card and shadow.  

The activity feed displays the latest updates without overflowing.  

INVALID EXAMPLES:  

There is no spacing inside the panels.  

Text overlaps or spills out.  

5. FORM SUBMISSION (If Any Forms Exist)  
Optional forms like “Add User” should comply with HTML5 validations.  

These forms should show a success message or validation errors.  

CSS STYLING BREAKDOWN: A STRUCTURED OVERVIEW  
1. ELEMENT: body (Page Background and Theme Colors)  
Purpose: Controls the overall look, including theme colors.  

Property (light): --bg-color: #ffffff; --text-color: #000000;  

Property (dark): --bg-color: #1e1e1e; --text-color: #ffffff;  

The theme switch toggles between these using a .dark-theme class or CSS variables.  

2. ELEMENT: .dashboard-container (Main Layout Grid)  
Purpose: Encloses the entire dashboard and establishes the grid structure.  

Properties & Effects:  

display: grid; Enables the grid layout.  

grid-template-columns: 240px 1fr; Sidebar + main content.  

gap: 20px; Space between elements.  

min-height: 100vh; Full height of the viewport.  

3. ELEMENT: .sidebar (Left Navigation Menu)  
Purpose: Styles the sidebar for navigation.  

Properties & Effects:  

background-color: var(--bg-color);  

position: fixed; Keeps it static during scrolls.  

height: 100vh; Full vertical height.  

padding: 20px; Internal spacing.  

box-shadow: 2px 0 5px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1); Adds separation from the content.  

4. ELEMENT: .main-content (Dashboard Main Section)  
Purpose: Holds widgets, panels, and all the dynamic content.  

Properties & Effects:  

padding: 40px;  

display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(300px, 1fr));  

gap: 30px; Ensures flexible, responsive panels.  

5. ELEMENT: .card / .panel (Individual Widget Panels)  
Purpose: Each box in the dashboard represents stats or sections.  

Properties & Effects:  

background-color: var(--bg-color);  

color: var(--text-color);  

padding: 20px;  

border-radius: 10px;  

box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);  

6. ELEMENT: .theme-toggle (Theme Switch Button)  
Purpose: Button to toggle between light and dark themes.  

Properties & Effects:  

padding: 10px 20px;  

background-color: #4a90e2;  

color: #ffffff;  

border-radius: 5px;  

cursor: pointer;  

This may toggle the .dark-theme class on body using JavaScript.  

LEARNING OUTCOMES:  
How to design a fully functional admin dashboard using CSS Grid layout.  

How to implement theme switching with CSS variables and JavaScript.  

How to test UI components and layout behavior across different screen sizes.  

Learned how responsive design principles and accessibility impact real UI/UX situations.  